# Pattern of Life (undecided title)
A book about my observations and discoveries
It is unfinished, but I am nervous that if I don't share what I know, it may become lost.

By Alex Hanson-White

There is so much I want to say about this world, but I only have so many words in this language that I can use to express it. As I write these messages, I find myself wondering if the chosen sequence of words will convey everything to a sufficient degree. Of all the possible ways I can combine the words, there will always be more to it that gets left unsaid. I have only begun to tell you, and yet my mind already rewrites every word multiple times like a heart beating, continuously pulsing through time. With so many possible beginnings it could of had, ultimately this is the way it began.

Let me first start by saying that communication is an amazing thing, especially as it pertains to time. I have often thought about words and their origin. They have evolved throughout history and formed many languages. People use the words from these languages, but what determines which words they use at any given time? Obviously there is a structure to every language, and that you learn, but based on the rate at which people talk, it seems clear to me that they are conditioned to recite previous messages that weren't designed by them. Each word flows out without much thought as to what comes next. The words that are chosen next are narrowed down by the words previously spoken. I suppose this occurs because the words are part of a language that is structured by specific rules. To me, the process appears similar to walking; A person doesn't think about how to do it, they just create the impulse to do it and the body reacts by narrowing down the sequence of motions necessary to reach the destination. Maybe that is why we refer to it as "Talking."

When I write these words, they are recorded and stay present in time. Their lasting presence creates a new structure for me to build upon and extend from, aside from the structure that already exists in the language. This enduring nature allows me to proofread these sentences and rework my messages exhaustively. Is it the repetitive process that inspires this structure to form, or is it the structure that inspires repetition to occur? Actually, I believe these are two characteristics of the same thing. But why does it matter?

Through my life, I have always been observant and have strived to find something new in the world, a world that seemingly has been increasingly filled with preconceptions and definitions. In the beginning, it wasn't so bad, because everything was new to me anyways, but as I became older I began asking myself what was truly different about all of it? What could I find that would make a difference? I spent my entire life observing both the exterior world outside myself as well as the interior world of my mind. I noticed many interesting things, but one day I noticed something significant; there was a connection between all of it.

I actually discovered this connection on countless occasions in different circumstances and in different representations, and every time it sunk in a little more deeply into my mind. You see, repetition is very important for developing an understanding of something, and when I noticed the connection in the beginning, the revelation was fleeting and seemingly untested at the time. I had my doubts as well as my distractions, however, the more it occurred, the more clear it became to me that I had found something exceptional. Over time, I observed closely this connection. In other words, I listened to what it revealed, and if I listened well enough, I could hear the revelations everywhere. There was a type of language in the air.

I believe everyone has the potential to hear it. I also think that everyone goes through the same process, and just as I have become aware of it at numerous times in the past, so too have others. The issue is that the world is full of distractions and disorder; noise of all types that overwhelm the senses. Often people just don't have the time to stop and listen, to let it seep in, and to make sense of it all. But you, the reader, have now found yourself in a unique and special situation by opening this book and allowing awareness to flow through these words. If you have the time to read this, then it must mean that you have the time to understand at least some of it. It is all cumulative anyways, so no matter how far you read into it, each time you do it might reveal something new. There is a connection between everything in life, even between the words that you read. These writings are my attempt to help reveal its pattern to you.

+

As you know, the structure of languages have persisted for thousands of years, and the people speaking and writing it have all worked reciprocally to sustain that. All this understanding it has generated is quite amazing. The processes behind it all is even moreso amazing, in my opinion. I believe the reciprocal behaviors of people in the past that occurred over time was a direct result and extension of a repetitive process found in nature, a phenomenon that has enabled and inspired the development of language. Furthermore, this influence isn't isolated to just language. From my observations, anything that exhibits structure and order has manifested this repetitive and reciprocal nature within itself at some point in time; a nature that builds a connection between parts instead of collapsing and falling apart. 

Anthropologists and Linguists are branches of society and in these branches there are many people interested in the origins of language and its development. They have had a focused pursuit of it, developing explanations for why things may be the way they are. People from all walks of life have come up with many explanations for various processes in our reality that range from all sorts of subjects, not just language, but just like there are various languages with different phonetics, alphabets, and structures, they still all serve the same purpose- to communicate a message. These processes of explanation are all influenced by the places and times where they have developed, resulting in different beautiful forms of expression, but it should be recognized that they are all reflections of the same pattern.

It happens everywhere, even here in my patterned way of writing, however, most people don't notice the processes behind it all. It is very difficult to notice when you are just starting out your life, being subjected to the pressures of the world, being pulled in various directions without having any prior experience to ground you. It takes time to slow down and collect yourself. This process is new at this stage of life, and as you grow older the experiences that you go through will serve to develop a type of ground that you can mentally stand on. Perhaps that is why it is called an "understanding." The ground provides a sense of orientation- of knowing which way is up versus down, and where you are relative to everything else. I want to show people how to build upon this understanding, because it seems clear to me that by doing so, people will discover a natural phenomenon that maintains a presence in everything, and they will begin to see how it permiates the fabric of space and time with a remarkable energy.

After all that has been said thus far, you probably have some preconceptions as to what this phenomenon might be, but I assure you that it isn't what you think it is. I want to remind you that the one thing I have sought out to do in life is to find something new- something that will make a difference in this world. Allow me the opportunity to explain it to you- at the very least, it will make me happy knowing I have shared what I found, and you will also have the chance to hear a fresh new perspective on many things.

I will be showing examples of various ways I have observed the phenomenon, but some people may respond to these observations by stating that it is just a construct of my mind, a way of projecting myself and my experiences onto the world, and that the phenomenon does not actually exist beyond that. Well, I understand that everyone projects themselves, and that everything that gets sensed is filtered through the mind and transformed. Those events are part of what I am trying to provide insight into because it concerns those things as well. Quite frankly, the perception we have of reality is very limiting, which is why there are so many methods of interpreting it, not only with our own sensory faculties, but with the devices we create that monitor and track phenomena within it. Sure, we're able to grasp a lot already with what we have, but much more goes unheard and unsaid. This is not only because we lack the methods to sense it, but because what we do sense ends up framing our perspective by conditioning the mind to specific outlooks, outlooks that can prevent us from looking elsewhere. 

This is part of the reason why it has taken me so long to figure out what is happening. There is always some level of doubt at play in the beginning, because what makes sense in one moment can cease making sense in the next due to the malleability of the mind and the pressures of the world. There are periods of transition where clarity becomes achieved and then that clarity wanes away again. It is like a bright light that overwhelms the eye, leaving an impression in your sight that fades away over time. The revelation can be too much to absorb all at once due to our limited outlook that can only focus on a select portion of things at any given time. All of this shouldn't be surprising though, because it shows the reality of what is at play and reaffirms my theory that there is a reciprocating and repeating nature involved in everything, even in the way we view things.

+

I should note that It's not easy learning new things. I am a bit worried that I might not explain things well enough, or that I may write something that is innaccurate. Afterall, what I'm writing about isn't something that can be understood completely in one go. It took me many years of careful observation to recognize what is happening, and I still am discovering more to it. I want to start explaining it now while I can, because I don't know what the future holds for me and if I will ever learn all of it. I believe it is the most important discovery I have had and want to make sure my observations are recorded. It took me a long time to develop this understanding and feel confident in my findings. I was fortunate to have been training my observation skills extensively through artistic ventures throughout the years, otherwise I may not have developed the skills necessary to discern the subtle details and be able to track what was happening around me. 

One important observation I made that led me to the discovery is that there must be changes happening for awareness and sense to occur. Changes are most notable when there are sides and divisions present, because the distinctions force a jump in our perception as we view the characteristics that separate one thing from another thing. An example of this is with contrasting details, such as there are when a line is drawn on paper. The crisp edge produces a distinct variation in value between the line and the paper, and our eyes are easily drawn to this. I noticed this relationship while creating my artwork, and I investigated it further. My assessment of the situation was that the eyes are drawn to it due to the rods and cones within the eyes. They are sensitive to light and as the eyes scan the paper, the value changes that occur along the edges of the line causes the activity in the rods to fluctuate and be stimulated rapidly. These fluctuations stimulate the nerves and send signals to the brain thus focusing an awareness to the details. These type of distinct details that juxtapose two extreme values are the most easily noticed in the world, and they tend to grab our attention most often.

The fact that contrasted tones were considered more bold and held a greater prominence  than subtle tones wasn't anything new to me. What struck me was what I noticed between those contrasting details. It was the invisible connection between the light and dark values. Concentrated between the two sides was a scale that transitioned rapidly, and when I analyzed it, I realized the rate of change was what grabbed my attention.

Details in the world aren't always distinct like this. When two things are very similar to each other, it is more likely for someone to overlook the subtle differences and end up viewing them as the same thing. Even if the change is rapid, the scale in that change could be shallow. Shifting from a grey value to a slightly lighter or darker grey value would be an example of a shallow change that doesn't hold as much weight in our mind.

Quick or slow, deep or shallow, our world is full of details with these characteristics. In either case, these time and space (rate and scale) characteristics seem to be an important factor in how we respond to the details. These impressionable details outside ourselves balance with our own sense of rate and scale that we have within ourselves, and depending on our frame of mind it can influence us in different ways. Regardless, there always seems to be some level of variance occurring around us if not inside us, and the changes we sense helps to stimulate our being.

When making observations, I would have to say that finding values in a gradual change is more difficult than finding values in a change that occurs succinctly. It requires patience and discipline to scan the spaces that the characteristics encompass without becoming distracted in other things. It requires a sense of orientation relative to what has been scanned and what hasn't been, and this sense of orientation is developed over time as this task is performed. When you are able to sense the changes in these subtle ways, the presence of a more subtle understanding begins to form in your mind. 

There have been times in the past when I have tried to explain things to other people. In a lot of cases they wouldn't understand. One of the primary reasons for that was due to my inability to supply the necessary intermediary values that serve to connect everything together. Without these subtler details, the changes between concepts being expressed can appear too sharp and abrupt. It becomes difficult for others to follow along when this happens. Likewise, if you supply too many subtle details then people can become lost, because they may not know how to discern all the differences between everything being expressed. It's a careful balance, but also a good reason to repeat yourself and explain the same thing in different ways. I continuously reread what I am writing, and sometimes I feel as though I might be repeating the same stuff too often, which is something that isn't good either, because changes must be present to create a greater sense of being. Essentially, if the message is too monotoned, it becomes less interesting.

So to keep things fresh, I'll recap quickly before moving on; The distinction exuded by a succinct detail exists due to the exclusion of space within it. The change between one value and the next does not occur often, but when it does, it appears instant and wound up in itself. On the other hand, the distinctions exuded by a subtle detail exists due to the inclusion of space within it. The changes between one value and the next occurs often and spread out across space, appearing more progressive and unwound. I frame it this way, because I want to bring awareness to the different rates and measures that these details possess. When you take into account the nature of Time, interesting observations begin to appear in every detail that you see. Let's explore that.

+

I'm sure you are aware of the time. You know what year it is, what month, what day. You probably know what hour it is currently, but maybe you'd have to check what minute it is by looking at a clock. Perhaps you wouldn't know what second it is either, afterall, that changes much more quickly. One second appears like a subtle grey, too difficult to discern amongst the scale of minutes and hours. In any case, time is considered to be representative of the past, present, and future. It is the events that happen throughout all of existence, and we attribute a specific time to each notable event. For instance, a year roughly marks the time it takes the Earth to orbit the sun. It provides a way of writing a record of when events have occurred. From this we can understand their sequence and how long their durations were. This is great, because it allows us to predict the future with some certainty having tracked what happened and projecting what will likely happen. In other words, by understanding the past, we can understand the future to some degree.

Remember how I said that there is a phenomenon that permiates everything? If we revisit the concept of reciprocating and repetitive patterns, I would say that Time is the one measure that brings our awareness to it. Or rather, our perception of Time is due to the pattern of this phenomenon resonating within us. Let me repeat that. Our perception of Time is due to the pattern that resonates within us. If you want to be more technical about it, it is the resonance within the brain, mainly the hippocampus and medial entorhinal cortex regions that contain neurons used for recording spacial information. This correlation between time and space is not surprising to me as I believe both are simply characteristics that describe the same phenomenon. Essentially, this resonance acts like an internal metronome. The fact that we have developed a natural biological mechanism within ourself to sense and track this time/space dynamic says a lot about how important this pattern is. Additionally, there can be any number of timings happening at a given moment due to the multi-dimensional quality of space. Our perception balances it all in a way that results with a sense of presence in ourself. I have found through my own experience that the more timed and intricate our senses become across a wide variety of spacial planes, the more intense this presence will become.

Assuming we can sense it in some way, anything that aligns in some form or another and realigns itself repeatedly is something that our internal metronome would be able to resonate with. We would attribute a time or time interval to these alignments, and if there are more ways to connect with the alignment through sub-units of time, then it increases its precision via these additional channels. These connections create layers of resonance that reaffirm the time and presence of the formation that we are sensing.

A simple example of this would be the day and night cycles. It is very easy to sense when it is daytime as opposed to night-time, because this is when the sun is above the horizon as opposed to below it and this relationship repeats every day. In addition to this succinct detail, there are other more subtle details that can be observed, forming sub-layers of time. For instance, the location on the horizon where the sun rises and sets and how high it gets in the sky. These help us determine the tilt of the earth in relation to the sun and what season we are currently in. Those subtle details change slowly spanning many days, and because they can look very similar from day to day grouping them together into more manageable packets of information provides a greater sense of distinction. This greater precision of time is developed by connecting everything together.

It may seem obvious, but that was just an obvious example. There are a multitude of less obvious ways that our internal metronome can resonate. The first step to noticing these ways is by discovering what repeats. Often we don't even think about why things are occuring if they are happening all the time. It can be surprising how they all connect together once you start noticing them.

In the case of my writing, to express my thoughts more accurately I reread and rewrite my messages again and again. The more I repeat this process the more refined and structured my thoughts and messages become. The timings that are resonating within me are expressed in the actions I take, and the reciprocal nature results in a formation of space. In this case it is the formation of words on a page, but this process involves much more than just simply words. The sentence structure, the punctuation, the letters, the context; each act as a different unit of measure that becomes layered together to formulate a greater sense of meaning. All of the pieces have been designed over time throughout history, and I simply am tuning into their pattern that was distilled in me, rearranging it to my liking, and making sense of what I see at this moment in time.

The main point I want to make here, is that these patterns in the language that were developed in the past are influencing the patterns of the future due to the way they are structured and designed. These structures and designs change slowly over long periods of time, but everyday they provide ways to communicate succinctly in ways that change quickly. In the past, far back in ancient history, there were a lot less distractions as people lived simpler lives, and thus language began more simply as a reflection of those times. This development of language can be reflected as a microcosm in the present day by the way children acquire behaviors and learn languages; it begins simply and becomes more complex with time. These reciprocating forces acting between people at every stage of their life are a natural process brought forth by a phenomenon that serves to sustain a presence within everything. Without it everything would fall apart and cease to make sense. Nothing would be able to work together in a synchronized way.

I like to think of the reciprocating force- the pattern, as a pulse of the universe, but some people might feel that this framing of it is too characterized. I suppose a more appropriate and scientific way of describing it would be to say that it is the energy of the universe. You may have heard how everything in the universe is made of energy. This is what scientists have apparently proven, and further more, that reality is an illusion. I find it interesting that even though I have not had the privilege to do extensive studies using expensive equipment and resources, I still have found a way to observe how everything connects together. This is because I have tuned and calibrated my awareness and senses to pick up on the subtle details of this energy that permiates through space in different forms and channels of time. I can do this because it all follows a pattern. I have the experience to filter out the noise so that a clearer signal is achieved, allowing me to track the patterns and make sense of what is happening. I do all this naturally through the use of my mind, and I believe this is what our minds are designed to do.

I believe you can do it too. The patterns are everywhere, and the way I've tuned and calibrated my mind has allowed me to identify and interpret the patterns in a more sensible and meaningful way. It might help to compare the process to something more mechanical and simple to illustrate. We can think of the process like a radio tuning into a radio station. The stations' signals and patterns are transmitted over radio waves with different frequencies. All this energy bounces around in the atmosphere. The adjustment of the radio receiver controls which frequency is heard among all the frequencies being broadcast. In other words, it resonates with and replicates the energy of a specific frequency that is being transmitted through the atmosphere and the radio mechanisms translate these signals into sound. Basically, the radio kind of relives or revives the energy in a new form, like a ripple in water propagating from a displacement of energy.

The structure of those elements in the radio, which together create a series of connections, provides a path for the energy to flow from beginning to end. At every step of the process the different mediums of the parts involved resonate with the timings of the energy as it exists in that moment and propagates the pattern forward. On the surface it may seem like a complicated and technical matter abound with specialized terminology serving to pinpoint and differenciate every part involved, but focusing purely on this language might, as they say, "prevent you from seeing the forest for the trees." Afterall, there are many languages with various different words and sequences, but what is important is the meaning behind them, and the message they convey. I believe our focus must be cyclic and transient like the energy itself, to attain a sense greater than any single focus may provide. By finding the patterns between it all, a deeper understanding can be developed that brings a greater depth to our reality.

+

So, let's say our focus becomes more cyclic like the energy. As our focus shifts and becomes transient, our perception goes through a process of change. If you recall earlier, I mentioned that changes are necessary for sense to arise. As our focus transitions, our sense of orientation regarding where our focus has been and where it is going will be influenced by the various frequencies that our internal metronome resonates with. These can fade or become clearer depending on how our perception becomes tuned throughout this transitioning phase. During this state of mind, things that appear to not have any connection with each other can begin appearing to have a relationship due to the overlapping of their frequencies. Where the different timings of the frequencies sync up is where a new sense becomes realized and is where the mind is naturally realigned towards. Any misalignments would otherwise be perceived as noise, which provides no structure to follow, nor would it hold our attention. It is the synchronization between frequencies that translates our focus towards new states of mind and allows new moments in time to be realized.

I think speech is a good example to use to illustrate this point. I find it interesting how quick the mind can discern words that are spoken. It would seem that the mind is conditioned to react a specific way, because as soon as a word is heard there is the perception of what that word represents or serves. When I hear a word, I can't choose to interpret it differently in that moment because it already has occurred. It is also interesting how I might hear different words depending on whether they are spoken clearly or unclearly. This reflects how similar frequencies may begin to resonate or cross over if the signals aren't clear and how a person's focus can exist in a transient state where it attempts to decypher the details within the noise to reach some form of conclusion.

Similar to how radio waves are broadcast, when words are spoken, the pronunciation involved in the process of vocalizing the words embeds a code into the sound. The pattern of the vocalization becomes transmitted as a patterned sound. Our ears convert these sounds into smaller vibrations via a series of mechanisms that ultimately lead them to being impressed into our nerves. This energy gets sent to the brain in a patterned way where it is interpreted. The energy resonates with neurons that hold a previously developed structure, specifically, a structure that was developed when those same patterns were repeated in the past. Because the neurons already exist to handle the message a specific way, the interpretation feels effortless. This is also why it can be difficult to focus when there is noise and events occurring around you, because there can be patterns of energy within it that our minds are conditioned to resonate with and react to.

Notice how I said, "react." That word can be broken down into two parts; re, act. This implies that the word "react" means to "act again." It also implies that whatever is acting has acted this way before. It's a subtle observation, but it can provide a deeper insight into why people behave specific ways. People experience new things all the time, which might suggest that these new experiences cause people to act differently every time, however, their reactions to these things are all designed by how they've patterned themselves in the past. This is because to be responsive requires an exchange of energy; the senses must resonate and translate the patterned energy through the connections that are held inside ourselves. In other words, these connections must already be in place for the energy to transfer and force the act to occur. It is a slow process to truly act differently, because it requires changing the fundamental aspects that make us who we are. These patterns can exist at varying levels of our being, such as on a biological level, or on a society level for example.

If we become aware of the patterns all around us and find a transient way of focusing; a way that mimicks the flow of energy and pulse of the universe, we will begin to see beyond the reactions that we take in the moments that we have. This would allow us to understand how everything connects together. New discoveries could be made, because we would be able to trace the connections between everything and find what has been overlooked or forgotten. With the way the world currently operates, it can be difficult for people to develop their own understanding. The energy of society is bound up in various systems that pressure people into following specific patterns and ways of living. Some people may like that, and other may not. Regardless, it is the result of the natural patterns between space and time.

+

It is interesting to me how the practices of a society can instill certain behaviors into individuals that aren't directly participating in those practices. This happens because the practices incorporate various structural components, and each of these naturally involve the measure of Time. Recall that we have a type of metronome within ourselves, and that this enables us to naturally sense these measures. The quality of time can be hypnotic due to the way it resonates. Simply being aware of a practice found in society may be enough to  convince the individual that that behavior has sustenance. This is because a behavior or practice repeats itself through time, and observing these repetitions can strengthen pathways in the brain's neurons that support a specific frame of mind. For instance, you may have heard how advertising and marketing tactics often portray people in specific ways relative to their products. It creates a subliminal message for the viewer suggesting that they must act the same way and furthermore that the product will enable them to attain a specific lifestyle. Because these advertisements are repeated often, it becomes impressed deeper the more it is seen. If this example is explored even more closely, we can see that it is actually a part of a larger sequence of steps where energy translates. The companies creating the products are resonating with the patterns of society, and the energy of that society cascades through every possible channel. The companies create advertising that serves themselves because that will allow them to attain more "reactions," and propagate further the energy that they have patterned. The way I am describing it may sound odd, because I describe it with neutral colored words. The people in the marketing and advertising practice may choose to describe this process with their own language consisting of specialized words and technical details, but we know now that the languages themselves don't change the meaning that is expressed behind the words. When you focus on just the words without considering the meaning behind them, it becomes another case of, "not seeing the forest for the trees." When you really start thinking about everything more deeply, you begin to see the connection between everything, the pattern, and an understanding that goes beyond a specialized way of thinking emerges. All that really changes is the languages people use to describe this understanding.

The issue of practices within a society and how it instills behavior can also be seen in the education system with how different professions are advertised and marketed to kids through varying degrees of exposure. Lifestyles are romanticized and expectations are drawn that help shape the minds of the kids and direct them towards certain channels of energy. They are graded on how well they can replicate the patterns of those systems and pressured to develop within timeframes that may not sync up with their current frame of mind. This forces them to become boxed in and specialized in the areas they were successfully resonating with at the time. It appears very similar to an assembly line. Kids cannot comprehend the full scope of what is happening in these systems, and neither can adults who have been conditioned to follow in the footsteps of others. I am not claiming that this is bad. All I am saying is that people aren't aware of what is happening beneath everything. All of these systems manifest due to the phenomena patterned within everything, and if people knew what was happening it would result with a more meaningful understanding of life.

In situations where a person has no choice but to be responsive towards, it can be good practice to focus transiently, as it allows the energy around them to flow through their system more calmly. In this state of mind they can make better decisions without rushing. Otherwise if the energy pressures them too succinctly, they could simply fall into a habit of mimicking what they or others have already done. By observing broader aspects of the situation that exhibit subtle changes, it allows people to instinctively understand things that aren't immediately known yet, or at least wouldn't be known if they were focused too narrowly or succinctly. In other words, by changing their patterns they can resonate with other patterns that they wouldn't have resonated with before, and in this way find new ways of understanding reality. The great thing about the education system is that it allows young people to quickly get a grasp on a wide variety of things happening in the world. At the same time, this can be bad, because it quickly conditions them to mimick those patterns and ways of thinking. This forces a preconceived notion as to who they ought to be, and what people already have become. This might leave them feeling confused as to who they are or where they belong, especially when there are so many possibilities.

In my own case, all I knew was that I wanted to be different and to find something different, and perhaps I tried too hard to do just that. The result of my effort is that I have potentially distanced myself from the normalcy of the world due to not fitting in. I can however say that I found new ways of understanding everything, due to skillfully observing it from my unique perspective, and I haven't been able to find this understanding elsewhere. This is one reason why I am writing all this. Maybe I just don't know where to look to find it, but it seems to me that more people would be talking about it if these things were known in the way I know them. Perhaps these new ways of understanding reality can help shape the future. At the very least, it could help inspire others who may be similar to me. I acknowledge that this thought is reflective of the pattern, but that is life. As I write these words, they flow like the weather, and through the seasons of my mind, cycling through time, the meaning regrows forever.

+

Energy is everywhere, flowing in a cyclical fashion as it cascades through various systems in the world. As the patterns refresh and recycle themselves the world constantly evolves. It flows much like the weather, with various states of being at any given time. It can change slowly or quickly, broadly of narrowly. Within all of it lies predictable and unpredictable patterns, stable states and conflicted ones. People try to find a balance within these changing times, to provide stability to their lives. Like plants that take root in the ground, constructing a solid base for growth to extend from, we grasp with our minds a way to compose ourselves.

I reread these pages again and again, rewriting the sentences in different ways. The energy that cycles within me, cycles reciprocally within the lines of text. The spaces unfolding new words that capture my current thoughts. This pattern is but one of many that are layered together formulating my life.

The time and space dynamic that resonates inside and outside of us, provides the medium for life to flourish and become transient- to formulate a greater sense of being, a greater sense of life.

Energy is everywhere and as energy patterns cascade through various systems in the world, the world constantly evolves and changes with these patterns. It flows much like the weather, with various states of being at any given time. It can change slowly or quickly, broadly or narrowly. Even though everyone is subjected to various forms of energy, people have ways of coping with everything and filtering the energy that they resonate with. It can be filtered through the body as well as the mind depending on how the energy manifests itself. Essentially, specific energy frequencies can become dampened if it isn't conducive to a person's way of being. In these cases, the energy may appear to the person as a type of noise or as a type of disturbance that doesn't align with other energy frequencies that are resonating within the person. It is like using an umbrella to prevent being rained on, or looking through a color filter lens; structures in their life (patterns) that they've built up around themselves act as a barrier or obstacle that insulates their way of being.

If you are aware of how traveling waves interact, you may know how they can produce interference patterns where they overlap. This example illustrates how energy frequencies can either strengthen or weaken, and it can be used to understand how people are influenced by energy in similar ways. We can make these interpretations because the energy patterns exist within everything in some form or another and share the same repetitive and reciprocal nature. In the case of traveling waves, interference patterns can come in two basic forms; Constructive Interference, and Destructive Interference. Constructive Interference results when the peaks of the energy waves align with the peaks of other waves, and the valleys align with other valleys. This alignment produces a stronger energy pattern with larger peaks and valleys. Alternatively, destructive Interference results when the peaks align with the valleys thereby cancelling each other out or weakening the energy pattern. 

If we take into consideration this concept of interference in addition to noise, we can see that energy patterns may not influence a person as strongly or as clearly as we think. When there are so many different energy patterns present at any given moment, it can be confusing to make sense of it all. This observation reminds myself that even my writing could potentially be confusing if I am trying to explain many things. My thoughts aren't always stable, and while writing I could be exposed to various forms of energy that can be distracting or disruptive. At times, even I am confused with what I am trying to say because the words haven't been written yet, and when they are I constantly reread and rewrite them to find a way to connect everything together. I may not do the best job at it, but I have to start somewhere. Life is unpredictable like this even though it has its predictable patterned way. We should be welcoming to the reality that understanding comes in phases, and clarity pulses to the same universal rhythm. It must be digested, absorbed, given time to sink in so that changes can occur.

Another great example of an energy pattern can be demonstrated with the Barton's Pendulum experiment. It consists of a series of pendulums of different lengths attached along a string. A driver pendulum is swung at the start. Over time, a specific pendulum begins resonating with and reciprocating the energy while the remaining pendulums remain relatively unchanged. When I first observed this experiment, I recognized immediately that there was something special being conveyed here and that the same energy patterns in this experiment can also occur elsewhere in other situations. For instance, imagine if the pendulums represent different people attached to a string of life. This group of people have a variety of tastes and preferences, and characteristics that make themselves and their lives unique. However, they may have similarities and shared interests. When one person in the group emits energy in some form or another such as with their behavior for example or through their lifestyle, the other people in the group may or may not react favorably to it. The ones that resonate in a reciprocal manner are the ones with a similar structure that harmonizes with the energy. The timings and spatial qualities influence the level of resonance and ability for synchronization to occur. Because energy is cyclical in nature, it flows more easily in mediums that are conductive to its behavior.

Shift focus*

Patterns aren't just found in human behavior, they can be found in other forms of life. One example is with the way migrating birds fly in formation in the sky. It is said that this behavior is instinctive as opposed to something that is learned, but what does that mean? The polarity of the two words "instinctive" and "learned" suggests that one is separate from the other, but in my opinion they exist on the same value scale. Let's consider the invisible connection, the pattern underlying everything. Earlier we referred to this phenomena as simply the energy within the universe. Based on what we know about energy, we can see that a "learned" behavior exhibits characteristics of a shorter/quicker energy pattern, whereas an "instinctive" behavior exhibits characteristics of a longer/slower energy pattern. This does not mean that one behavior type acts quickly while the other type acts slowly. Both can act either quickly or slowly. What I mean to say is that the connections that bring those behaviors to life are operating on the principles of short and long wavelengths.

We know that longer wavelengths are less likely to change compared to shorter wavelengths based on observations of light and how it refracts through a prism. Shorter wavelengths of light become bent and refracted at larger angles compared to the longer wavelengths that refract to a lesser degree. The shorter wavelengths are more prone to being influenced by the mediums they pass through whereas the longer wavelength are less prone to being influenced. This is why it makes sense that instinctive behaviors should have a correlation with longer wavelength patterns, because instinct does not go through a process of change that is easily identifiable. It might change slightly as we grow and develop, but day to day it remains relatively the same. This also explains why learned behaviors should have a correlation with shorter wavelength patterns. Behaviors can be learned very quickly, however these behaviors are very unstable and prone to being influenced or changed from day to day. We can also infer that there are a range of behaviors that fall somewhere on this scale between being more instinctive and unchanging, versus being learned and unstable.

If we continue thinking about how light refracts through a prism and how it produces what we identify as color, we can see that this appears to closely resemble how behaviors emerge in all of us. The energy that passes through our bodies becomes refracted and expressed as various forms of behavior. It is as if our bodies act like a complex multi-faceted prism, and how the energy resonates as it translates through our system determines the reactions that emerge in that process.

Energy has always been flowing through us since the beginning of our development, and both innate and learned patterns of behavior have been instilled in us in some way due to that. It appears as though one of the primary determining factors for whether one behavior is innate or learned is based on characteristics of time and space. Understanding the growth patterns of these behaviors sheds light on this time/space dynamic.

Growth occurs as part of a reaction caused by stimulation. In the case of a learned behavior, it requires the neurons in the brain to react to stimuli and become strengthened in specific ways. The result of these changes may create new pathways and methods of thinking which will alter our understanding and thus the behaviors that we drive with it. Also, relative to how energy patterns resonate inside us, growth can occur with more subtle degrees of change, or with more succint degrees of change. Take for example when you learn a person's name; The timings in that pattern occur succintly however, it may be a shallow energy that becomes forgotten easily. In the moment, it may have seemed like you learned something new, however, the energy patterns require time and repetition for reactions and growth to occur, and if it doesn't resonate sufficiently then it will eventually be lost. It is similar to how a muscle can be strengthed when exercised, or how it can weaken when it is not used.

Before we can understand or behave a specific way, the pathways must be in place that allow for energy to translate and support such an existence of being. Whether a behavior is deemed to be learned or innate, they both develop the same way through translations of energy. We can see that even before we are born, our being goes through a process of stimulation that results with changes in ourself. Growth occurs, and behaviors are embedded in our biological system as the layers of our being become built up again and again. The instinctive behaviors that we come to identify in time may simply be the result of these layers resonating and influencing our system of being. Much like the way society influences and pressures people into specific ways of living and acting, the environment we find ourselves in at all stages of our development will influence how we become to be. If we look at it this way, we can see that what we are is much more than just an identity, we are a connected system of being that extends beyond just a single identity.
